Prashna Tantra
Sri Neelakanta
Chapter 1: Uses of Horary Astrology
1-2. According to the opinion of astrologers, all those human beings who will be
impelled (by Daiva) wish to know the current
good and bad nature of things in their lives. Once upon a time, even the Lord of
the world Brahma approached Vishnu to learn horary astrology.
How to Put a Query
3. One should approach a learned astrologer of pleasant disposition, early in the
morning, with fruits, flowers and money and facing the east and after
making due obeisance to the astrologer, put only one question of an
auspicious nature.
The True Astrologer
4. The predictions of one well-versed in the ten kinds of calculating planetary
longitudes and proficient in astrological lore cannot go wrong.
5. In the hands of men of learning culture and humility successful results alone are
possible.
About the Querist
1. Whether the person is sincere or not in putting the question should first be
ascertained on the strength of the ascendant. The astrologer should then
study the good and bad aspects of the query and his prediction will be duly
inspired.
2-4. The querist's intention will not be honest if (a) the Moon is in the ascendant,
Saturn is in a quadrant and Mercury is combust; (b) Mars and Mercury
aspect the Moon in the ascendant; (c) a malefic joins the ascendant; (d)
Jupiter or Mercury cast an inimical glance on the lord of the 7th. His
intention will be sincere it (a) a benefic plant joins the ascendant; (b) if
Mars or full Moon and Jupiter aspect the ascendant; and (c) Jupiter or
Mercury throws a friendly aspect on the lord of the seventh.
Answering More Than One Query
2
5-6. The first query is to be read from the ascendant, the second from the Moon,
the third from the Sun, the fourth from Jupiter and the fifth from the
stronger of the planets Mercury or Venus. It is dictum of the astrological
science that a query has to be answered by a proper assessment of the
ascendant. If only one question is answered, the prediction cannot go
wrong.
Planetary Avasthas
7. One should predict by examining the ten planetary states such as Deeptha, etc.,
and such a prediction will not go wrong.
Results of Avasthas
8-10. In a Prasna chart planets subject to the different avasthas are capable of
conferring the following results: Deeptha-success in the undertaking;
deena-sorrow; swastha-fame; muditha-gain of wealth and happiness;
suptha-sorrow and fear from enemies; nipeeditha-loss of money; mushita
and pariheena-failure and loss of money; suveerya-access to conveyance
and gold; and athiveerya-political success and valuable contacts.
Planetary Indications
11. The Sun signifies east, satwic nature, royalty, father, Kshatriya caste, heat
blood-red colour, wavering temperament, honey coloured eyes, phlegm,
minerals, courage and thin hair.
12. The Moon signifies phlegm, rainy season, softness, mother, 'milk white' colour,
satwic nature, living beings, Vaisya caste, swiftness circular shape, wind,
and charming eyes.
13. Mars indicates Greeshma (June-July) season, Kshatriya caste, blood-red, south,
commander-in-chief, wavering nature, youthfulness dhatu (minerals), white
(peeta), eyes, cruelty bilious constitution, sikhi (possessing a tuft).
14. Mercury signifies Sarat season (October-November), bluish hue, tall body,
impotency, moola (minerals), heir-apparent, ability in writing, north, Sudra
caste, a mixture of windy, phlegmatic and bilious nature.
15. Jupiter rules satwic nature wealth, cold, phlegmatic constitution, tall body,
prime minister, Brahmins, male sex, midday, north-east and honeycoloured eyes.
3
16. Venus signifies peace, Brahmin, women, subordinates, prime-minister,
wavering nature, white colour, south-east, phlegmatic constitution, sour
taste, and curly hair.
17. Saturn signifies black colour, sinful nature, weakness, old age,
impotency, moola (minerals), untouchables, remissness, Sisira season
(March-April), wind, cruel nature, west, and windy constitution.
18. Rahu signifies 'dhatu', tuft of hair, vegetables (moola) and events
indicated by Saturn, becomes strong in a Kendra from Mercury or the
ascendant.
Events to Know from Different Houses
19. From the first house is to be discovered one's happiness, longevity, age,
caste, health, disposition, nature, sorrow, appearance and complexion.
20. The second house rules pearls, precious stones and minerals and
wealth, apparel, work pertaining to horses and roads.
21. The third house rules sisters, brothers, servants and those that perform
menial work.
22. The fourth rules tracts of land, places where plants are thrashed, tracts
abounding in vegetation, special medicines, treasure troves and crevices.
23. The fifth house has rulership over pregnancy, issues, wanderings, spells
and incantations, arbitration, learning, intelligence, and discourses.
24. The sixth house denotes fear from thieves, enemies, fighting, donkeys,
diabolical deeds, maternal uncle, fear and obstruction, and servants.
25. From the seventh house should be read trade, transactions, disputes, journeys
and wife or husband.
26. The eighth house rules river crossing, wayside suffering, hills, trouble from
enemies, lost property, evil deeds, battles, diseases and clandestine deeds.
27. The ninth house signifies tanks, wells, lakes, water-reservoirs, deities, places of
worship, maths, vows (penance), pilgrimage and righteousness.
28. Events to be ascertained from the tenth house are Government, authority,
meritorious deeds, virtue, position, father, essential things rainfall and
celestial phenomena.
4
29. The eleventh house signifies elephant and horse-rides, clothes, the staple food,
gold daughter and gain of wealth.
30. The 12th house rules renunciation enjoyment, disputes, charity, cultivation and
institutional expenditure.
Chapter 2: Bhava Prasna
General Estimate
1. Whether according to horoscopy or horary astrology, whichever Bhavas are
associated with or aspected by either their respective lords or benefic
planets would gain vitality. The effects will be destroyed if malefics aspect
or join them.
2. The object of the question will be fulfilled if benefics join the ascendant or its
own vargas rise in the ascendant or the ascendant happens to be a
sirshodaya sign. If otherwise, the object will not be fulfilled. If the
influences are mixed, there will be success after initial setbacks.
Success of Object in View
3-4. The ascendant lord aspects the ascendant and the significator aspects the
(appropriate) house; or the ascendant lord aspects the house and the
significator aspects ascendant; or the ascendant lord and the significator are
in mutual aspect; or the Moon aspects both the significator and the
ascendant lord the object of the query will be completely fulfilled.
5-8. The chances of success will be one-fourth, half, three-fourths or full according
as (a) the ascendant is not aspected either by its lord or a benefic; (b) the
ascendant lord is aspected by benefics; (c) even one benefic aspects the
ascendant or its lord; or the ascendant lord or 2 or 3 benefics are in the
10th; or three benefics aspect the ascendant; and (d) the ascendant is
aspected by its lord, or the Moon is free from affliction and benefics aspect
the Lagna.
9. Such planets defeated in war by malefics, those associated with or aspected by
malefics and planets in combustion give unfavourable results.
10-12. A query such as "when will I succeed" should be answered thus: There will
be success when (a) the lord of the ascendant aspects the signification and
the significator aspects the ascendant; or (b) the significator being situated
in the ascendant aspects the lord of the ascendant; (c) or the significator
occupying a sign other than the ascendant aspects the lord of the
5
ascendant; or (d) the significator aspects the Lagna, Lagna lord or the
Moon; (e) or the ascendant lord and the significator are mutually
connected either in the ascendant or in the Bhava (house) concerned. In
(b) and (c) the success will be immediate or delayed respectively.
13. The object of the query will not be fulfilled if the significator does not aspect
the ascendant or its lord. In a query pertaining to "success or failure" no
house other than the ascendant can be considered important.
First house
1. If a person puts the question 'how about my past, present and future', first
ascertain the strengths of the ascendant and the Moon. If both are weak,
the object of the query will fail.
2. Always note the strength of the Navamsa Lagna. If it is subject to benefic
aspects, the querist derives favourable results. Malefic aspects cause
unfavourable results.
3. Read the past, present and the future from the planets who are respectively in
Musaripha, in conjunction with and in Ithasala with the ascendant lord.
4. If the lord of the ascendant is in the ascendant or in conjunction with benefics,
the querist will become free from worry and ill-health.
5. According as the lord of Lagna is malefic or a benefic, there will be quarrels,
illness and loss of money; or mental equilibrium, gain of money and
happiness.
Second house
6-8. In a query about finance, predict gain of money if the lord of the 2nd is in
Ithasala with the lord of Lagna or the Moon; or is in conjunction with or
aspected by benefics. If malefics are in the 2nd, the querist gains money
from a distant land and also suffers affliction. If the lord of the 2nd has
Muthaseela with malefics, the querist may die. If the ascendant lord has
Ithasala with the 2nd or lord of the 2nd, in whichever Bhava the slowermoving planet is situated gain accrues through that Bhava.
9. If Mercury occupying the ascendant is aspected by the Moon or a malefic, there
will be gain of wealth but also untoward happenings.
6
10. When the Moon, lord of the ascendant and the lord of the 2nd house are in
conjunction or in mutual aspect occupying the 2nd or a kendra (quadrant)
or a trikona (trine) there will be immediate gain to the querist.
11. If the lord of the ascendant has benefic Shadvargas and the Lagna is aspected
by or associated with benefics, the querist secures immediate gains.
Otherwise contrary results will happen.
12. The Moon in the 4th or the 7th, the Sun in the 10th, a benefic in the ascendant,
confer immediate gain of money. The same will be the result if Jupiter
occupies the ascendant.
Third House
13. When the lord of the third house aspects the 3rd or if the third house and the
lord are aspected by benefics, the health of the querist's brothers will be
good and they will be happy. If otherwise, contrary results will happen.
14. If the lord of the third is in the sixth and is in Muthaseela with the lord of the
6th; or if the lord of the 6th is in the 3rd or the lord of the 3rd is afflicted,
the querent's brothers will be in bad health.
15. One's brother will be suffering from a dangerous disease if the lord of the 3rd is
combust. The source of affliction will be in accordance with the planet who
is in Ithasala with the lord of the 6th or the 8th.
16. The Bhava whose lord is in the 6th or the 8th suffers afflictions. In this manner
should be ascertained the affliction with reference to all Bhavas.
17-19. If the lord of the Lagna has Muthasila with the Moon in the 4th or occupies
his own house, the querent will come into possession of lands. If the
combination is afflicted by malefics, contrary results will happen. If a
farmer puts the query "whether or not I will successfully cultivate a certain
land" answer it thus: The ascendant indicates the cultivator, the 4th
indicates the land, the 7th rules cultivation and the 10th rules the crops. It
the Lagna is occupied by a malefic, the farmer loses by theft.
20. If the malefic in Lagna is free from retrogression or acceleration, the
beneficiary will be the thief. If benefics are in Lagna, the farmer will
benefit by cultivation.
21. If a malefic occupies the 4th, the cultivator will dispense with the land. If a
benefic is located in the 7th, the cultivation will be successful. Malefics will
destroy the crop.
7
22-23. If the lord of the 10th is in the 10th aspected by or associated with benefics,
there will be a good crop.
In a query relating to the leasing of land, the ascendant signifies the
querent and the 7th indicated the lessee, the 10th signifies the production,
and the 4th rules the final profit, etc. Benefits accrue if the Lagna and its
lord are connected with benefics. If they are afflicted, contrary results are
shown.
24. Whoever be the lessee, he will suffer if malefics are in the 7th. If the 10th is
occupied by malefics, the querent will derive no benefit even if the crop
yield is satisfactory.
24-1/2. If malefics are in the 4th, final result will be unfavourable.
Fifth House Questions
25-26. If a query is put "whether I will have children from this women", the answer
will be that he will have children. If the Lagna or the Moon is in
Muthaseela with the lord of the 5th. The querent will have a child early if
the 5th lord is in Lagna and the lord of Lagna and the Moon are in the 5th.
27. If there is Nakta Yoga, the birth of issue will be delayed. If the ascendant is a
dual sign and is conjoined with benefics, there will be birth of twins.
28. If the Lagna and the lord of the 5th are in masculine signs then a male issue will
be born. If the Moon is in an odd sign and has Muthaseela with a masculine
planet, then also the issue will be a male.
29. Or if the query is put after midday when the Moon is behind the Sun, then the
issue will be a female. If the lord of the Hora is a masculine planet and is in
a male sign, a son will be born.
30. If the Moon or Mercury is in the 5th or in conjunction with (or aspecting) the
lord of the 5th or the lord of the 5th is exalted, the querent will get a
legitimate issue.
31. When a query is put "whether this lady is pregnant', predict that she is
pregnant if the lords of the ascendant and the Moon are in the 5th house.
32. If the Moon or the lord of the ascendant is in an Apoklima in Ithasala with the
ascendant or the 5th house, but aspected by the 5th lord, then the woman
has not conceived.
8
33. If the ascendant is a movable sign (Chara Rasi) and a malefic occupying it is in
Muthaseela with the waning Moon, or if the
Lagna is Chara and the lord or the Moon occupying it is in Ithasala with a
retrograde planet, the lady will have abortion.
34. If the query is 'whether the child in the womb will die or live", say it will live if
the lord of the 12th is in a Kendra in conjunction with or aspected by
benefics; or if the query is put during Sukla Paksha (waning Moon and the
Moon is in the 12th conjoined with benefics, the child in the womb will live.
35. If the lord of the 12th is a malefic, is combust or is in an Apoklima not aspected
by or conjoined with benefics, the child will die after birth or when in the
womb.
36. In a query relating to the time of delivery, the number of Navamsas passed in
the Lagna signify the age of the pregnancy. The number of navamsas
remaining and the degrees remaining in the ruling navamsa signify
respectively the number of months and days yet to pass for the delivery to
take place.
37-38. The lady will deliver in so many months as the number of sings reckoned
from the ascendant to the position of Venus. It Venus occupies the 10th.
11th or 12th house, then the number of months will correspond to the
number of signs from the 5th house to the position of Venus. This is the
view of Bhuvana Pradeepa.
39. If the ascendant is a diurnal sign, or the query is put during the day, or the lord
of the ascendant is in a dual sign, the child will be born during daytime;
otherwise the birth will be during night.
40. If a nocturnal sign rises but the query is put during daytime then the result is to
be guessed on the basis of the disposition of the Lagna lord, the lord of the
sign occupied by the Lagna lord, Dina hora, etc.
41-43-1/2. If a query "will I get a child this year?" is put, the birth of an issue
should be predicted when there is Ithasala between the lords of the first
and fifth. Birth of a child should be predicted if the lord of the 1st is in the
5th and the lord of the 5th is in the 1st subject to benefic aspects. Otherwise
there will be issue. If the lord of the 5th or 6th being free from combustion;
or Jupiter, Mercury or Venus rises in the ascendant, there will be birth of
an issue.
44-45. To answer a question pertaining to disease and its cure or otherwise,
consider the Lagna as signifying the physician, the seventh disease, the
tenth patient and the fourth medicine or treatment. If malefics are in or
aspect the ascendant, the disease cannot be cured by the physician.
9
46. On the contrary, the disease will be intensified. If malefics are in the 10th, due
to the querent's own fault, the treatment will not work. If malefics are in
the 7th or 4th, one complication will lead to another complication.
47. Benefics in the above places will enable the patient to get cured. If the lord of
the Lagna and the Moon are in Ithasala with benefics, the disease will be
destroyed.
48. If the planets (lords of the above houses) are retrograde, the disease will again
appear or there will be relapse. If the retrograde planets (in the 1st, 4th, 7th
or 10th) are in Ithasala with the Moon, the patient will die.
49-51. The patient dies under the following combinations: (a) Lord of the 8th,
occupies the ascendant; (b) lord of the ascendant or lord of the 8th is in the
8th house from the moon; (c) the Sun is lord of Lagna and the Moon causes
Ithasala with the lord of the 7th posited in the 6th; (d) there is Ithasala
between the lord of the 8th; or the ascendant lord occupying a quadrant,
and a planet in combustion or retrogression; and (e) the lords of Lagna and
the 8th occupy afflicted quadrants and there is Ithasala between these two
lords.
52. If the ascendant is in the Dwadasamsa of the Sun, the patient dies. If the
ascendant fall in a movable sign (Chara Rasi), the patient appears to
recover but again there will be a relapse.
53. If the ascendant is a common sign, the disease will be other than the suspected
one. If the ascendant is in a fixed sign, the disease is as suspected. If the
Moon is in Muthaseela with a retrograde planet, it will be a chronic disease.
54-55-1/2. If the Moon's Muthaseela is with a slow-moving planet, the disease first
originated from the blocking of the urinary passage. If on the 4th or 7th day
prior to the query, the sun and the Moon were subject to benefic influences
the patient will recover. The illness will continue if the lord of the
ascendant or the Moon has Ithasala with the lord of the 6th, or is combust.
Employer-Employee Relations
56-58-1/2. A query like "will I serve another master?" should be answered thus: If
the lord of the ascendant is in a quadrant having no Muthaseela with the
lord of the 6th or 12th, there will be no change of service. If the lord of the
ascendant is retrograde and is in Ithasala with a planet in the 3rd or 9th, the
querent will change over to a new master. If the lord of the ascendant is in
a quadrant and is aspected adversely by a malefic and the Punyasaham is
combust, then there will be no change of the master throughout the life of
the querent.
10
59-60-1/2. A query such as "will my interest be safe under the present master?"-
should be answered thus: If the lord of Lagna is in Kamboola yoga with the
Moon, then the querent's interests are safe under the present master. If the
Kamboola yoga is between the lord of the 7th and the Moon, it is better to
serve under a new master. In a similar manner, queries bearing on lands,
houses, leases, etc., should be answered by a proper assessment of the
favourable and unfavourable factors.
61. In queries as to whether one would get a servant or cattle: If the lord of the
ascendant and the Moon are in the 6th or the Lagna lord has Ithasala with
the lord of the 6th, or if the lord of the 6th is in the ascendant, he will get
servants and cattle.
62-63. In a query about marriage, if the lord of the 7th is in Ithasala with the lord
of the ascendant or the Moon, the querent gets a bride without his seeking.
If the lord of the Lagna or the Moon is in the 7th, then the bride is secured
with effort.
64-66. If the lord of the ascendant is in Musaripha with the Moon or in Ithasala
with the lord of the 7th, the querent secures a bride without effort. If the
planet with whom Ithasala is caused is in combustion or afflicted by
malefics, the querent will notsucceed in getting a bride. If the lord of the
8th is a malefic the object of securing a bride will be defeated. According as
the 3rd or 4th lord happens to be a malefic, the failure (in securing a bride)
will be due respectively to the brothers and father. If in the chart,
combinations are affected by benefic planets, the object will be realized
through the appropriate sources.
67. In regard to a query bearing on love affairs, say there will be friendship and
love if the lord of the ascendant is in Muthaseela with the lord of the 7th. If
these two lords are in hostile aspect, the couple will always quarrel. If
either lord has Kamboola yoga with the Moon, the bride will be endowed
with character.
68. According as Saturn happening to be lord of the ascendant or the 7th occupies
a Kendra, the querent or the bride will have the upper hand.
69. If both the planets are in the same sign, infer that the couple will quarrel but
become reconciled. According as the Sun, Venus or both are weak, the
bridegroom or bride or both the couple will lack happiness.
70-71. If the query "whether my angry wife will return home" is put, say that she
will not return if the Sun is in the 1st, 2nd or 3rd house, and Venus is in the
5th, 6th or 7th. If Venus is either retrograde or is heliacally rising, the wife
will return. If Venus is not retrograde or is combust, the wife will not
return. She will return after considerable delay or early according as the
Moon is waning or waxing.
11
72. If a question is put : "Is the bride pure in her character", say she is pure if the
ascendant is a fixed sign and the lord of the ascendant and the Moon are
also fixed signs.
73. If the ascendant, the ascendant lord and the Moon are in movable signs, the
girl's character will not be pure. If the Moon is in a common sign and the
ascendant is a movable sign, the girl's character will be suspicious.
74. If the Moon and Mars are in movable or common sign, the girl will have
committed adultery in secret. If the Moon and Saturn are in Lagna, her
sexual impurity will be an open secret.
75. The girl will be definitely guilty of adultery if Mars and Saturn occupy a
quadrant aspected by the Moon and if Venus occupies the Drekkana of the
Moon.
76. The woman will not yet have delivered if Venus is in Aquarius and Mercury is
in Leo. If Venus and Mercury are in Scorpio and Taurus, the delivery will
have already taken place.
77. If Mars, Mercury, Venus and the Moon are in common signs (except
Sagittarius) the lady will deliver early. If they are in Sagittarius, the
delivery will not take place.
78. If malefics are in movable signs, the pregnancy will be due to a person other
than the father. If the malefics are in fixed signs, the child is born to the
father. If mixed influences prevail, the fatherhood remains questionable.
79. A question such as "Is this woman's conception due to her husband or another
person" should be answered thus : The conception is due to the husband if
the lords of the ascendant and the 5th are aspected by or conjoined with
benefics; aspected by Saturn and Mars, it is due to another person.
80. "Is this woman a Kulata (harlot) or a Sati (a devoted wife)" be the question,
she may be considered to have committed adultery in her own house if the
lord of the ascendant or the Moon is in degree conjunction with Mars.
81. If Mars is in his own sign, then she will have committed the sin in another's
house. If the Sun is in Muthaseela with Mars, her intimacy is with a high
personage.
82. If Mars has Muthaseela with Mercury, her parmour is a trader or a writer. If
Mars has Muthaseela with Venus, then she will be guilty of homosexuality.
If contrary combinations exist, the lady will be pure in character.
83-84. If Mars (in the above combinations) has Musaripha Yoga with the lord of
the ascendant or the Moon, the lover of the woman will be to her liking.
According as Mars is aspected by Jupiter, the Sun or Venus, she will be
restrained by the fear of her son, or the law or other women. If Mercury
12
and Venus together aspect Mars, she will be afraid of the scandal that her
lover is an old man.
Eighth House Questions
85. In regard to a question bearing on war, if the planet in the ascendant or the
planet occupying the sign held by the ascendant lord is in Musaripha with
the Moon the querent ruler will win. If the Moon has Muthasila with the
planet in the 7th or the planet who is in the sign occupied by the lord of the
7th, the enemy will win.
86. If the superior planets are strongly placed ahead of the inferior planets or if the
iferior planets being weak are behind the major planets, victory goes to the
querent.
87. If the lord of the Lagna forms Muthasila with the lord of the 7th in the 6th, 3rd,
10th or 11th, warring rulers will cease fighting by mutual agreement. If the
ascendant lord is in between the ascendant and the 7th, the querent ruler
will get killed in the battle-field.
88. If the lords of Lagna and the 7th are in Musaripha and one of the lords is
combust, the war will drag on for a long time. If the lord of the ascendant
being a slow-moving planet (Saturn) is in Kamboola yoga (with the Moon)
and is ahead of a fast-moving planet, the querent will win.
89. If the lord of Lagna (as in stanza 88) is combust, or occupies the debilitation
sign of the 7th lord or is in a quadrant from the 7th lord, or is in the 7th, the
querent faces danger of defeat.
90. If benefics are behind the ascendant and slow-moving planets are forwards of
the ascendant, the querent gets the help of a noble person. If the lord of the
ascendant is in the 8th and in Muthasila with the lord of the 8th, the
querent dies in battle.
91. The enemy will be routed when the lord of the 7th is in the 2nd and is in
Muthasila with the lord of the 2nd. The lord of the ascendant in Muthasila
with the lord of the 10th indicates success to the querent.
92. Lords of the 4th and 7th in conjunction denotes victory to the enemy. If the
lords of the ascendant and the 7th are in Kendras and in mutual Ithasala,
predict success to the party signified by the stronger of the two lords.
93. If the stronger lord, suggested in stanza 92, is in a movable sign, the party it
indicates will has initial success followed by utter defeat. If the lord of the
ascendant is in the 12th, the querent's army suffers losses. If the lord of the
7th is in 6th, the enemy's army will suffer losses.
13
94. According as the lord of the 10th is in the ascendant or the lord of the 4th is in
the 7th, the querist's or the enemy's armies will get help. The nature of
help will be in accordance with the planet involved in Muthasila with the
Sun or the Moon. If there is Musaripha, harm alone can befall.
95. If the query put is : "Will I undertake a journey", say the querent will go on a
journey if the lord of the ascendant is posited in a quadrant and has
Muthasila with the lord of the 9th and vice versa.
96. If the lord of the 9th is in the ascendant and has Muthasila with the ascendant
lord, there will be no journey. In the absence of a trinal aspect in the above
combinations, there will be no journey.
97. If the lord of the ascendant occupying a quadrant is in Muthasila with a planet
in the 3rd house and devoid of malefic aspects, there will be journey. If
malefics are in Kendras, the journey will not take place.
98. Malefics in the 7th indicate failure in the object of the journey. Malefics in the
10th indicate that the object of the journey will fail due to the government
or elders in the family.
99. If there is Muthasila between the lords of the Lagna and the 9th and malefics
aspect them, the quarent will meet with physical danger and loss of money
in the journey.
100. If the Muthasila between the lords of the ascendant and the 9th has reference
to the 8th and 7th houses, there will be affliction during the journey. If the
Yoga is in the ascendant, the querent will have a comfortable journey.
101. From the ascendant should be divined the nature (comfortable or otherwise)
of the journey; from the 10th, the object; from the 7th the nature of the
place to be visited; and from the 4th the result (or outcome) of the journey.
From the Lagna should also be ascertained the bodily or physical comforts.
102. Benefics in the 10th confer success; in the 7th good in the place of visit; and in
the 4th-complete satisfaction of fulfillment.
103-104. According as the lagna lord or the Moon is afflicted in human, quadruped
or aquatic signs, the trouble during journey will come human beings, fourlegged animals or water resorting creatures respectively. If the affliction is
in Sagittarius or Aquarius, the trouble will be from trees and plants. If the
affliction is in Leo, the trouble will be from leonine species.
105. If the query "will my visit to the city or place prove beneficial" is put, it must
be answered thus : If the lord of the 2nd is in the ascendant, retrograde, the
querent's planned visit to the place will not be useful.
14
106. If the second lord is in accelerated motion, the stay will not be long and the
visit not much fruitful. If the second lord occupies the 9th or 3rd, the
querent finishes his job quickly and returns back to his native place.
107. The lord of 2nd joining the ascendant, the 10th or 11th, indicates smooth
fulfillment of the object of the visit. According as the 2nd lord is in the 7th
or 4th, afflicted, the failure will be due to many troubles or quarrels on the
way.
Tenth House Questions
108. If the lord of the Lagna or the Moon is in the ascendant forming Muthasila
with the lord of the 10th and the 10th is aspected favourably, the querent
inherits the kingdom he is heir to.
109. The lords of the ascendant and the 10th in mutual interchange of houses and
unafflicted confer gain (of kingdom) without effort. Lord of the 10th in the
ascendant in Muthasila with a benefic indicates similar result. If in the
above combination, the slower-moving planet is afflicted, the querent has
no chance of success.
110-111. If a slow-moving planet is strongly placed in the 4th in adverse Muthasila
(square aspect) the querent's reputation is in jeopardy; if in favourable
Muthasila (trine) free from affliction, he gets fame. If the Moon is weak
and the slow-moving planet is not devoid of strength, the querent gets the
kingdom after visiting many places. If the ascendant lord is in the
ascendant and Mars is exalted, the estate is secured.
112. When Kamboola Yoga is present due to the lords of the ascendant and the
10th being in Muthasila with a quadrangular Moon, the querent gets a good
kingdom. If the Moon is situated in his own house, he gets an enlarged
kingdom.
On Realising the Object
113. There will be no success or realisation of the object if the lord of the sign
occupied by the lord of the ascendant is in unfavourable houses. Immense
difficulties have to be faced if the ascendant lord is combust. If there is a
square aspect, there will be strife and quarrels.
114-116. In a question "Is there any chance of my getting a kingdom", the Lagna
represents physical efforts, the 7th signifies attempts at home, the 10th
rules the advantages of securing the kingdom and the 4th comprehends the
help derived from friends. The 2nd denotes financial help, the 3rd, help
15
from assistants and the 6th, occupied by or conjoined with benefics,
beneficial results flow from the respective significations. The reverse holds
good if afflicted. If the lord of the 2nd being Mars is debilitated, money will
be spent on others' wives.
117. According as the lord of the 2nd is Jupiter, Venus or Mercury occupying the
9th, 11th or 6th, funds will be spent on helping preceptors, on sensual
pleasures and on trade and business. If the Moon has Ithasala the motive in
spending will be generous.
118. If the lord of Lagna is afflicted and weak, the kingdom will be destroyed. If
Kamboola is present and the yoga-producing planet is afflicted, the querent
will fall from power.
119. Amity will exist between the king and the minister if there is Kamboola yoga
in the Lagna and the 7th and benefics are in Ithasala with the two houses.
120-121. The query "whether or not the king holds the country permanently"
should be answered thus : If our of the lords of the ascendant and the 10th,
the slower-moving lord is in a quadrant, the authority will be permanent.
Otherwise, the sway will be temporary.
If the slower-moving planet is retrograde and occupies the 4th house and there is
Kamboola Yoga, the kingdom will slip out of the king's rule for some time
but he gets it back quickly. If there is Musaripha, the chance of getting back
the kingdom is bleak.
Questions Pertaining to the Eleventh House
122. If the question "will the king honour me" is put, answer it thus : If the lords of
the first and 11th are in friendly Muthasila, the querent will be honoured.
123. If the aspect is unfriendly, the honour is delayed. If the lord of the 11th has a
Kamboola Yoga with the Moon, in a Kendra, the honour will be conferred
early. The result will be appropriate to the nature of the sign-Movable,
fixed or common to which the Kamboola has reference.
124. If the slower-moving planet is afflicted, the querent's hope will seem to be
quickly fulfilled, but he will be actually disappointed. If the planet is not
afflicted, the hope for honour will be confirmed.
125. If the lords of the ascendant and the 11th are in mutual friendly Muthasila
there will be real friendship between the querent and the quesited.
16
126. If the lord of the ascendant and the 11th are in mutual Kendras, there will be
friendship; if in Panaparas there will be intimacy; and if in Apoklimas,
bosom friendship will prevail.
127. If the lord of Lagna and the Moon are in favourable Muthasila in a quadrant
(Kendra) or in a cadent house (Panapara), the object of the querent will be
fulfilled.
128. In disputes with opponents, if the lord of the 6th is strong, the enemy should
be considered as powerful. If the 12th lord is powerful, then the querent
will be powerful.
129. If the query is about war with an enemy, say the enemy is powerful if the lord
of the 7th is strongly disposed. If the lord of the 12th is powerful, then the
person for whom the query is put is more strongly placed.
130. If the 12th house is well aspected and conjoined, the querent will spend
money on deserving cause. Otherwise the earning will be squandered. In
this way, each house should be studied.
Chapter 3: On Special Questions
Return of a Person in Exile
1. If the lord of the Lagna is in Muthasila with a planet in the Lagna or the 10th
house, the traveller returns safely. If the lord of the ascendant is in the 7th
or 4th or is in Muthasila with the lord of the 7th, he will return with much
difficulty.
2. If the lord of Lagna occupies the 3rd of 9th and has Muthasila with a planet in
the ascendant, the traveller is already on his way back.
3. The ascendant lord occupying the 2nd or 8th house and in Ithasala with a planet
in the 10th signifies that the traveller is on his way back. If the ascendant
lord is in Muthasila with a planet in a quadrant and the Lagna is
unaspected, the person will never return.
4. If the lord of the ascendant is retrograde and the Moon is in the ascendant, in
Muthasila with a retrograde planet, the person will soon return safely.
5. The traveller will return early if the Moon is in Muthasila with the lord of Lagna
occupying the 12th. If benefic planets, are in the 2nd or 3rd from Lagna or
from the 4th or the signs held by benefic planets, traveller returns soon.
17
Missing Person : Alive or Dead ?
6. The missing person will return if any planet occupies the 6th or 7th, Jupiter is in
a quadrant and Mercury and Venus are in trines.
7. The traveller should be deemed to have been dead if the ascendant is a
Prushtodaya sign aspected by malefics and devoid of benefic aspects and
the 6th house is occupied by Mercury afflicted by malefics.
8. The person will have gone from one place to another if malefics occupy the
third. His money will have been robbed if malefics are in quadrants.
9. If malefics are in the 3rd, 6th and 11th and benefics in quadrants, the missing
person, no matter how far he may be, will return safe.
10. The traveller will be in custody if Saturn occupies a malefic sign identical with a
quadrant or a trine and is aspected by malefics.
11. The traveller will be held in custody permanently, or for some time or arrested
and released according as the ascendant occupied by benefics, is a fixed,
movable or common sign.
12. If malefics occupy the 7th or the trines and the ascendant being a Prushtodaya
sign is aspected by malefics, the traveller will be subjected to many troubles
and difficulties.
13. Benefic planets in the 7th indicate the safety of the traveller. Malefics in the
ascendant denote difficulties for him.
14. If the Lagna or the Navamsa Lagna is a movable sign and the Moon occupies
the 4th, the person will return home safely after completing his work.
15. If the quadrants are occupied by benefics and unafflicted by malefics or if the
Moon is in the 8th, the traveller will be back home safe.
16. If Durdhura Yoga is present, the traveller will be where he is. If benefics cause
Durdhura, it forebodes good for the traveller. If malefics cause the Yoga,
he will suffer because of enemies and thieves.
17. If the Lagna is a fixed sign, then the traveller will remain where he is; the illness
will not be cured; lost money will not be recovered; failure will be the
result.
18. If the Lagna is Chara, contrary results happen. If the Lagna is a common sign,
the first and second halves denote results similar to fixed and movable
signs respectively.
18
19. The traveller will get back soon it Jupiter and Venus are in the 3rd or 2nd
house. If they are in the 4th, he will return home soon after completing his
mission.
20. If the Moon is in the 7th house or if the lord of the 7th is in the second Hora of
a sign, the traveller will be on his way back home.
21. If Venus, the Sun, Jupiter or Mercury is in the 4th or 11th, then return of the
missing person should be expected soon. If any one of these planets is in
the 12th, the person will not return.
22. The fugitive will return from the foreign country in as many months as the
number of signs intervening between the Lagna and the strongest planet.
23. The above period of return is for movable signs. According as the strongest
planet is in a fixed or a common sign, the number is to be doubled or
trebled.
24. The time of return may also coincide with the time of the lord of the 7th
becoming retrograde.
25. If benefic planets occupy the 4th and 10th, the traveller will not return.
Malefics in the above places indicate the return of the person.
26. The person will meet with as many difficulties as the number of malefics that
are situated in the 9th or 12th from Lagna or the Lagna lord.
27. The traveller will meet with as many benefits on the way as the number of
benefic planets that are occupying the 9th or 12th from the Lagna or Lagna
lord.
28. According as afflicted Saturn devoid of beneficial aspects is in the 9th or 8th,
the traveller suffers from illness, or dies in a foreign place.
29. The traveller will be prevented from returning either by friends, or by enemies,
illness or thieves according as the Moon's Durdhura Yoga in the 7th is
caused by benefics or malefics.
30. If the Sun and the Moon are in the 6th aspected by Saturn, the traveller will
have fear from enemy's weapons. If Mercury or Venus is in the 11th, he
will be happy. If Mars or Saturn is in the 8th, afflicted, he will encounter
troubles on the way.
31. If the lord of Lagna or the Moon is in the 6th, 4th or 8th, debilitated or
combust, has Ithasala with the lord of the 8th and benefics are away, the
traveller should be presumed to be dead.
19
32. The person gone to a distant place should be considered as dead if the Moon is
in Ithasala with a retrograde planet occupying the 1st, 2nd or 3rd house
which should be devoid of benefics.
33. If benefics are in the 6th, 8th or 12th devoid of strength and aspected by
malefics; or if the Sun and the Moon are afflicted by malefics, the person is
dead.
34. The ascendant being a Prishtodaya sign occupied by malefics, malefic planets
occupy trines, quadrants or the 8th or the 6th unaspected by benefics the
traveller is dead. If the Sun is in the 9th, he is suffering from illness.
35. When the Moon has Ithasala with a planet placed in a house beyond the 4th,
and is aspected by or conjoined with benefics, the traveller who has gone
abroad is happy and returns safely.
36. If malefics are in inimical signs, the enemy will beat a retreat in the middle of
the journey. If they are in the 4th, the enemy's retreat will follow with
defeat.
37. When the fourth house is identical with Pisces, Scorpio, Aquarius or Cancer,
the enemy will suffer defeat; if it falls in a quadruped sign, the enemy will
retreat.
38. The enemy will beat a retreat if the Lagna of the 4th house falls in Aries. Leo,
Sagittarius or Taurus, whether or not such house is occupied by any
planets.
39. The enemy will not arrive if the 4th is occupied by the Sun and the Moon.
Jupiter, Venus and Mercury in the 4th denote early invasion by the enemy.
40. If Saturn or Jupiter occupies Lagna, which should be a fixed sign, no forecast
should be given to the querent. Malefics in the 3rd, 5th and 6th denote
conflict with the enemy. He (the enemy) will be defeated if malefics are in
the 4th.
41. The ruler will win if benefics occupy the 10th, 1st or 7th. Mars and Saturn in the
9th cause defeat to the querent-king. Mercury, Jupiter and Venus in the 9th
denote victory.
42. The enemy's invasion may happen within as many days as are signified by the
number of signs intervening between the ascendant and the Moon,
provided there are no planets in between.
43. If strong Venus, Jupiter and Mercury or if at least two of these, or if Jupiter or
Venus be in Lagna, the enemy ruler will be killed in the battle-field.
20
44. If the Sun, the Moon, Mars, Saturn and Rahu or four of them or at least three
of them occupy the Lagna, the querent king will meet with quick death. If
these planets are in the 7th, the enemy king will meet with immediate
death.
45. If Venus, Jupiter, the Moon and Mercury, or at least three of them in strength,
occupy the 7th house, the enemy will quickly inflict defeat on the querent
king. If benefics are in the 4th and 10th, the parties will sign a treaty.
46. If the Moon occupying Lagna has Ithasala with Mars, the querent will be
captured or killed. A similar fate befalls the enemy if the Moon (having
Ithasala with Mars) occupies the 7th.
47. Peace between the parties will be brought about by the person signified by
planets in exaltation or own house, who are situated in between the lords
of the ascendant and the 7th. If such a planet is Mercury, the mediator will
be a writer or a scholar.
48. If malefics are in the 7th and benefics in the ascendant, the enemy is paid a
ransom. If vice versa, the enemy pays ransom to the querent-ruler.
49. If Mercury occupies the 5th and has Ithasala with the Sun, the spies will be in
incognito. If Mars is in Easarpha with the Moon, the spies will don the
dress signified by the planet in association with the Moon.
50. The fortress will be taken if malefics are in Lagna at the time of query. This will
be specially so if the malefic happens to be Mars of Rahu.
51-52. The fortress will be secured quickly when Rahu is in the 7th. If malefics are
in Lagna or the 7th and the lord of Lagna is in the 12th, 2nd, 8th or 6th, the
fortress cannot be taken back again. If the ascendant lord associated with
malefics is retrograde and occupies a Kendra, was is inevitable.
53. Lord of the 6th or malefics in the 7th denotes war. Malefics occupying
quadrant, and especially Scorpio or Cancer, indicate the destruction of the
fortress.
54. Mars and lord of the 8th in conjunction forebodes colossal slaughter. Jupiter in
the 2nd, 5th or 11th, which should be a Keeta Rashi, indicates no such
destruction. If Saturn and Mars are in quadrants, there will be heavy
destruction and capture of troops by the enemy.
55. A war of great destruction will be declared if malefics are in or aspect the
Lagna or the Lagna is hemmed in between malefics.
On the Recovery of the Patient, Etc.
21
56. The patient's death is certain when the ascendant is occupied by the lord of the
6th and the Moon is aspected by malefics.
57. The Moon in the 4th or 8th house hemmed in between malefics denotes the
death of the patient. The patient will recover early if the Moon is strongly
placed and aspected by benefics.
58. The sick person will depart to the abode of Yama if the Moon is in the
ascendant and the Sun is in the 7th. The disease or illness will become
complicated by the physician's treatment when malefics are in the
ascendant.
59. If benefics are in the ascendant, the diagnosis will be correct. The Lagna
signifies the physician, the 7th represents the nature of the disease or
sickness, the 10th rules the sick person and the 4th denotes treatment.
60. If there is friendship between the lords of the 1st and 10th houses, the
treatment being appropriate to the disease, the illness will be cured.
Otherwise the disease aggravates.
61. The sick man is sure to survive, if the ascendant lord being a benefic is strongly
disposed in a quadrant, is exalted or occupies Moolatrikona.
62. A single planet, which should be powerful and a benefic occupying the Lagna,
protects the sick man. If benefics are in the 9th, 6th, 11th and 3rd, then also,
the illness will be cured.
On the Curse of Deities
63. If malefics are in Apoklimas, the disease is hereditary having been caused by
water or instruments.
64-66. According as the planets occupying the 8th or 12th are Rahu, Jupiter, the
Moon, the sun, Saturn, Mercury, Mars and Venus the sickness or disease
will be due to the pretas, curses of parents, a deity, frequenting watery
places, a female deity, family deity, spirits of dead persons, a sakini and a
watery deity respectively. These deities possess atheists. When the Moon is
strongly disposed in exaltation or own house, the disease can be cured;
otherwise, the disease cannot be cured. When strong malefics are in
quadrants, even when the deities are propitiated relief is not possible. If
benefics are in kendras, mantras and japas will help. When the Moon is in
an upachaya and benefics occupy quadrants, trines or the 8th, and the
ascendant is aspected by benefics, the sick man will be relieved of his
sickness.
22
67. The sick person will be cured of his sickness when benefics are in Kendras,
Trikonas and the 8th; the Moon is in an Upachaya and the Lagna is
aspected by benefics.
Master-Servant Relations
68. The master-servant relationship will be cordial and beneficial if the ascendant
is a Sirshodaya sign occupied or aspected by benefic planets; benefics are
placed in the 2nd, 7th and 8th; and malefics occupy the 3rd, 6th and 11th.
69. According as malefics occupy the ascendant, the 2nd, the 7th or 8th, the servant
will suffer from loss of money, mental affliction, difficulties and death
respectively in the hands of the ruler (or employer). Hence he should reject
such master.
70. It will be to the detriment to the interests of both the employer and the
employee if malefics occupy the ascendant, 2nd, 7th and 8th. Benefics in
these places conduce to the well-being of both the parties.
71. If the Moon and benefic planets occupy or aspect the ascendant and the 7th
unafflicted by powerful malefics, the employer will take to the querent with
kindness and friendliness.
Future with Another Master
72. When the lord of the ascendant occupying a quadrant has an Ithasala with the
lord of the 6th or 12th, the querent will benefit from another master. If
contrarily disposed, there will be no benefit.
73. The querent will secure improvement in the present job itself if the lord of the
ascendant occupies a Kendra, identical with his exaltation or own house
and is in Ithasala with the Moon and is otherwise strongly disposed and
unafflicted.
74. If the lord of the 7th is situated in a Kendra identical with his exaltation or own
house and has Ithasala with the Moon and fortified by benefic aspects and
association, the querent will immensely benefit under his new employer.
75. If a query "will I prosper in his house or in this place or elsewhere" is put, say
he will get on well if a Prishtodaya sign rises. Predict after taking into
account all the pros and cons
23
Recovery of Lost Property
76. If the lord of the 4th is in the ascendant or the Moon is in the ascendant,
aspected by the lord of the 4th, the lost money is to be found in the
expected place.
77. If the lord of the 2nd is in the 2nd or 4th, he will have access to much wealth.
Malefics are in the 4th, he will get none.
78. When Mars is in the 7th or 8th, the wealth will not be secured by the querent as
it will be in the protection of another person. If Rahu is in the ascendant
and the sun is in the 8th, the wealth or property will not be secured. The
wealth can be secured if either the Moon or Jupiter becomes the lord of the
7th, 8th or 10th.
79. The lost wealth will be got back if the lords of Lagna and the 7th are in the 7th
and Lagna respectively. Similar result will happen if the two lords are in
Ithasala in the 7th.
80. When the lords or the ascendant and the 7th are in Ithasala, the latter transfers
his influence to the former, meaning the thief will return the wealth. The
Sun is in the ascendant and the Moon is in the 7th, the lost wealth will not
be recovered.
81. The thief will himself stealthe property and run away to his abode, when there
is Ithasala between the lords of the 1st and 10th houses. The thief will be
caught with the stolen property if the Moon and the lord of the 7th are in
combustion.
82. The thief is in the place of theft if the lord of the 7th is in a quadrant. He will
have bolted away if the 7th lord is in any other place. If the lord of the 7th
is in Ithasala with the lord of the 3rd or 9th, the thief will have left the town
limits.
83. When the lord of the 10th is in Ithasala with the lord of the ascendant, recovery
of the stolen property will be through the police. If either the lord of the
3rd or the lord of the 9th has Ithasala with the lord of the 7th, the property
will be recovered in another place.
84. The property will be recovered if the Moon occupying the ascendant or the
10th is in benefic Ithasala. If such a Moon has a friendly aspect from the
Sun or a benefic planet, then also the property will be got back.
85. If a fixed sign or a fixed Navamsa rises, or the Lagna is Vargottama, the thief
will be the querent's own man and the property will be with him.
24
86. According as the rising Drekkana is the first, the middle or the last, the lost
property will respectively be hidden near the door, or inside the premises,
or in the backyard of the house.
87. If the question refers to money inadvertantly lost, say that it is in the place
dropped if the lord of the ascendant is in the 7th and vice versa or if both
the lords are in Muthasila.
88. If "which direction is the lost property to be secured" is the question, say that it
is in the east, south, west or north according as the Moon occupies the
ascendant, the 10th, the 7th or the 4th house.
89. When the Moon is not in a Kendra the direction is signified by his position
from the nearest quadrant, the reckoning commencing from the ascendant
as east and every 45o there from representing a cardinal point in the order
of east, south-east, south-west,north, north-west and north-east; or the
direction is signified by the nature of the rising sign.
90. In regard to questions bearing on lost or stolen wealth, 7th signifies the thief,
the 4th signifies the property and the ascendant and the Moon signify the
person who has lost the money.
91. The lost property will be recovered if the lord of the Lagna is in the 7th in
Ithasala with the 7th lord. The thief himself will return the property when
the lord of the 8th is in the ascendant.
92. If the lord of the 2nd is combust the thief will be caught. If the lords of the
ascendant and the 10th are in Ithasala, the thief will be apprehended along
with the property.
93. If in the above combination, there is no aspect of the lord of Lagna, the thief
will have come just for committing the theft. If the lord of the 7th is
combust, the thief will be caught.
94-95. When there is Ithasala between the lords of the ascendant and the 7th, the
money will be returned by the thief due to the fear of the police. when
there is no Ithasala and when the lord of the ascendant is weak, the thief
returns the money to the authorities concerned. when the lords of the 1st
and 10th are in conjunction, the stolen property can be got by going to the
authorities.
96. The thief's money is signified by the 8th house. If the lord of the 2nd is in the
7th or 8th, the stolen property will not be recovered. If there is Muthasila
between the lords of the 2nd and 9th, the money will be got back.
97. When there is Muthasila between the lords of the 8th and the 10th, the
authority will favour the thief's point of view. When
25
there is no mutual aspect between the lords of the ascendant and the 2nd, the
querent will get news about lost property, but he will not recover it.
98. If the query is "who is the thief", say he is a member in the household of the
querent if the ascendant is aspected by the Sun or the Moon. If both the
Sun and the Moon aspect the Lagna, then say the thief lives near the
querent's house.
99. When the lords of the ascendant and the 7th are in the ascendant, the thief is
one belonging to the same household. If the lord of the 7th is in the 12th or
the 3rd, the thief is the querent's own servant.
100. The thief is a well-known person if the lord of the 7th occupies his own or
exaltation place. He will have been assisted by a person signified by the
strongest of planets occupying the ascendant, the 7th or the 10th.
101. When the combinations given above are present, judge the thief by the
strength of the lord of the 7th. If such a planet happens to be debilitated
Sun, the father of the house-owner will be the thief.
102. According as such a debilitated planet happens to be the Moon, Venus,
Saturn, Jupiter or Mars, the thief will respectively be the owner's mother,
wife, son, an important member of the house or brother or the son.
103. If the debilitated lord of the 7th is Mercury, then the thief will be a relative or
a friend. The nature of the thief should also be ascertained by a
consideration of Punyasaham. If the Punyasaham is not aspected by
malefics, the thief determined as above will not be the thief. But if the 7th
lord is aspected by malefics, the earlier finding holds good.
104. When the lord of the 7th is in Musaripha with Mars, the thief will not have
been caught before. If Saturn happening to be the lord of the 7th is
aspected by the Moon, the thief is an heretic.
105. Jupiter denotes the crime being committed with public notice. Mars indicates
the money being hidden in a pit. Venus suggests use of a duplicate key.
Mercury denotes that the theft is due to a guest.
106. According as the significator happens to be Venus, Mercury, Jupiter, Mars,
Saturn or the Sun, the thief will respectively be a youth, a boy, a middleaged person, a young person, an old man and a very old person.
107. If the Sun is in the 12th or 2nd, the thief is a young person. If the sign is Leo,
the thief is of middle age. If the Sun is in the 7th, he is old and if in the 4th,
very old.
108. The place, where the stolen article is kept, will be appropriate to the nature of
the sign in the fourth house-earthy, fiery, airy or watery.
26
109-110. The nature of the planet owning or occupying the 4th should also be
considered. If the planet is Saturn-a dirty place; the Moon-watery place;
Jupiter-temples; Mars-near fire; the Sun-the principal seat of the owner in
his house; Venus-bed; Mercury-place where food is served or library or
money is kept.
111. If the question "is he thief or not" is put, say that the suspected person is the
thief if there is Muthasila between the Moon and a malefic. If the Moon's
Muthasila is with benefics, the suspected person is not the thief.
112. If "has he committed any theft before" is the question, say that he has
committed a theft before if either the Moon or the ascendant lord is in
Musaripha with the lord of the 7th.
113. If the lord of the 7th is a feminine planet or is in a feminine sign or is joined
with or aspected by feminine planets, the thief is a female if contrary, the
thief is a male.
114. By carefully studying the Navamsa dispositions of the ascendant lord,
ascertain the age, size, caste, etc., of the thief. Of the plenty of literature
available on the subject of identifying the thief, I have explained a few
principles here.
Special Rules Regarding Children
115. If the lord of the 5th is in Ithasala with either the lord of the ascendant or the
Moon and is associated with or aspected by benefics, the querent will have
children.
116. The number of sons and daughters will correspond to the number of powerful
masculine and feminine planets aspecting the 5th house; or the number of
issues corresponds to the Navamsas gained by the 5th house, provided the
5th or its lord are in conjunction with benefics.
117. The querent can never have children when there is no mutual aspect between
the lords of the 1st and the 5th or the lord of the 1st does not aspect the 5th
or vice versa or the lord of the 5th has Ithasala with malefics.
118. The querent will have very few number of issues if the 5th house happens to
be Leo, Taurus, Scorpio or Virgo and the 5th house from the query
ascendant or from the birth ascendant or from birth Moon are occupied or
aspected by malefics.
119. When the Sun or Saturn is in the 8th identical with his own sign, the querent's
wife is a vandhya. If Mercury or the Moon is in the 8th, the querent will get
a daughter.
27
120. The wife of the querent will deliver a dead child if the 8th is occupied by
Jupiter or Venus. She will have abortion if Mars is in the 8th. If the strong
lord of the 8th is in the 8th, the querent's wife cant secrete the type of
ovum that could be fertilized.
121. When the 8th is occupied by the Sun or Venus or the 2nd, 12th and 8th are
occupied by malefics, the first issue will die and subsequent issues also will
not be long-lived.
122. If the lord of the 12th is in a quadrant aspected by or associated with benefics,
the child survives. If the full Moon with beneficial aspects are in a
quadrant, then the child will be long-lived.
123. When the lord of Lagna and the 5th are in odd signs, male issues will be born.
when they are in even signs, daughters will be born.
124. The issue will be a male when the lord of the 5th is in a masculine sign and the
lord of the Lagna is also in the 5th aspected by male planets. When the lord
of the 5th house is in an even sign and the lord of the ascendant is also in
an even sign aspected by female planets, the querent will have daughters.
125. When the ascendant is a common sign and happens to be occupied by
benefics, twins will be born.
126. When Saturn occupies an odd place counted from the ascendant, the querent
will have male issues. If Saturn is in an even place from the ascendant, he
will have daughters. What is to be noted is, further details should be
gathered from books on predictive astrology.
On Meals
127. The Sun and other planets signify respectively the tastes katuka (astringent),
lavana (saltish), thikta (bitter), misrita (mixture of all tastes), madhura
(sweet), amla (sour) and kashaya (bitter).
128. The strength of the planets aspecting the ascendant indicates the rasa or taste
appropriate to it, which the person likes.
129. He will have special liking for that taste which is signified by the planet in
Muthasila with the Moon. The person will have to be starving if Rahu or
Saturn is in the ascendant aspected by the Sun.
130. When a question 'what did I eat today' is put, say that the querent has eaten
once, twice or many times according as the ascendant is a fixed, common or
a movable sign.
28
131. According as the planet in the ascendant, is the Moon, Mars, Jupiter, the Sun,
Venus or Mercury, he will have eaten the food tasting kshara (saltish),
katuka (hot savoury), amla (sour), madhura (sweet), thikta (bitter) and a
combination of all.
132. When Saturn is in Lagna, the food will have tasted bitter (kashaya). When the
Moon has Musaripha with a malefic and a hostile Ithasala with a benefic,
he has attended a marriage dinner; if the Moon's Ithasala with the benefic
is friendly, he has attended the dinner by invitation.
133. When the Moon has Ithasala with a benefic and Isaripha with a malefic, the
querent will have had a rich and sumptuous meals.
134. When the Moon has Isaripha with a benefic and Ithasala with a malefic he will
have eaten a food which is without sweet taste and ghee but which is
pungent. When both Ithasala and Isaripha are with malefics, the food will
not be from another place.
135. If the Moon is aspected by the lord of the sign he occupies, he will have a
sumptuous meal. Otherwise, the result will be contrary. If the Moon has
Ithasala with Jupiter, he has a meal given to him with respect. If the
Moon's Ithasala is with the Sun, he will have pure and holy food of hot
taste.
136. When the Moon has Ithasala with Venus, the meals is to the querent's desire.
If the Moon's Ithasala is with Mercury, the querent will have excellent
meals in a party, with music and entertainment. The Moon in Ithasala with
Saturn or Mars denotes food in an out-of-the-way place of hot meals
respectively.
137. If the question is "will I attend the dinner invited for", say that he will have a
satisfactory dinner if the Moon and Mars are in conjunction in a Kendra or
in mutual Ithasala.
138. If Saturn is the planet, the food will be unattractive; if Mercury or Venus, the
food will be to the entire satisfaction of the querent. If the ruler of the hora
in which Jupiter is placed occupies the ascendant or the 10th, the querent
without any effort on his part will be invited and served with food to his
contentment.
139. The invitation for meals will be from the party signified by the house the lord
of which happens to be in Ithasala with the Moon. If he is lord of Lagna,
the dinner will be in his own house; if of the 2nd, from employees; if of the
3rd, from brothers and so on.
140. If Saturn or Rahu is in the ascendant aspected by the Sun, he will be invited
by enemies and be attacked. If the Moon and Mars are in Lagna aspected
by Saturn, the querent will be assaulted.
29
141. He will be given agreeable meals by a friendly host if strong Jupiter and
Venus, or strong moon and Mercury are in the ascendant conjoined with
benefics, and malefics occupy the 3rd, 6th, 10th and 11th.
142. The 4th house signifies the type of food, the 11th signifies hunger and the
Lagna denotes the eater or Khadaka. The lord of Lagna is Bhojyadi. So
should be studied the indications.
143. If the lords of the 4th and the 11th are in Ithasala and are aspected by
benefics, he gets excellent meals. If the lord of the 11th is in Ithasala with
the lord of the 10th, ascendant or the 7th, the querent happily enjoys the
dinner.
144. If the Sun occupies the ascendant the querent sees in his dream a king, fire,
weapon or a bloody act. If the Moon is in the ascendant, he will see in the
dream white flower, white cloth, scent or a woman.
145. If Mars occupies the Lagna, the dream will be about blood, flesh, pearl or
gold; if Mercuryjourneying in the heavens; Jupitermoney and the visit of
relatives.
146. If the ascendant is occupied by Venus, the dream will be about bathing in a
tank or river and if by Saturn, climbing elevated places such as hills, tall
buildings, etc., or the nature or dream can be divined according to
Navamsa Lagna.
147. Or the nature of the dream should be ascertained with reference to the
strongest planet in the query chart. If the planetary influences are evently
disposed, the querent will have ordinary dreams. If all planets are weak, he
will have evil dreams.
148. If the Sun is in the ascendant aspected by the Moon or if both the Sun and the
Moon are in the ascendant, the querent will have a bad dream; the duration
of the dream corresponds to the duration of the rising sign at the time or
query.
On Sports
149. When the lords of the ascendant and the 7th are in Ithasala and in mutual
friendly aspect, one will have an enjoyable hunting expedition. If the aspect
is inimical, the expedition will be difficult and a failure too.
150. When the lord of the ascendant is in the 7th and vice versa the hunting will be
successful. If the lord of the 7th is in the 4th or 10th, it will not result in any
catch.
30
151-152. If Mercury and Mars are strong, the catch will be good. If they are
combust or in the 7th in the Navamsa, the querent has to abandon the
hunting. The object of hunting is denoted by the lord of the 4th or the 10th
occupying the 7th. If the Rasi happens to be watery, the catch in view are
acquatic animals; if it is a Vana Rasi, the catch in view is wild animals. The
querent will catch as many animals as the number of malefic planets
intervening between the ascendant and the Moon. The number is to be
doubled are trebled according as the malefics concerned are in their own
Navamsas or dwadasamsas.
On Disputes
153. When malefics are in the ascendant, the querent will win in the dispute. When
the lord of the ascendant is debilitated or combust, victory over the enemy
is not possible.
154. If malefics posited in other houses than the ascendant and the 7th house are in
mutual hostile aspect, the disputants will fight and assault each other.
155. If the ascendant and the 7th are occupied by malefics, there will be no
peaceful end to the dispute. In due course the more powerful will vanquish
his opponent.
156. If the lords of the ascendant and the 5th are in Kendras with benefics, there
will be an agreement between the parties. Otherwise not. If the lords of the
6th and the 7th are inimical, mutual enmity will prevail.
On the Traveller
157. If the question "will my man who has gone away return home or not, or is he
in incarceration or killed" be put, say the person is neither killed nor
imprisoned if malefics are in the ascendant.
158. The person who has gone away is under restriction if malefics are in 4th, 5th,
7th, 8th and 9th aspected by malefics.
159. If malefics are in the 7th or the 8th, the fugitive will have been beaten and
imprisoned. When malefics are in the ascendant, the 7th or the 8th, the
fugitive will be imprisoned, beaten and then let off.
160. When malefics are in the 7th and the 8th, or in the ascendant, and the 7th or
the 8th and the 1st, the fugitive in imprisonment will be released quickly.
When malefics are in Lagna, favourable results ensue.
31
Release of the Imprisoned Traveller
161. The question "what will happen to the person in captivity" should be
answered thus: If there is a Mrityu Yoga as per judicial astrology, say he
will be released. The answer to the question "when will he be released" is,
he will die if there are malefic yogas.
162-163. When the lords of Kendras are in Kendras, the imprisoned person will not
be released. When the lord of the ascendant in the yearly chart is fallen and
associated with a malefic occupying as Kendra and the lord of the 8th is a
malefic planet, the fugitive will die. If the lord of the Lagna is combust,
occupies the 4th and is aspected by Mars, the person dies.
164-171. If the Moon is in association with a malefic occupying the 4th or is with
the lord of the 8th, the person will die in prison. If the Moon occupying a
Kendra is associated with or aspected by Saturn, he will have long
suffering; if aspected by or conjoined with Mars, he will be beaten in the
cell. If the lord of the Lagna is in Drisyardha having Ithasala with the lord
of the 12th, the person will escape from the prison. If the lord of the 12th is
in the 1st and the lords of the 3rd and 12th are in the 12th in Ithasala with
the lord of the 1st, then also the fugitive will escape from prison. If the
Moon occupying Drisyardha has Muthasila with any planet, the prisoner
will be released. He will get his freedom early if the lords of the 3rd and 9th
are benefics. If the afflicted Moon has Ithasala with a planet situated in the
3rd or 9th, then also he will be discharged. When the Moon has Ithasala
with the lord of the 3rd or the 9th occupying a Kendra, there will be early
release. As long as a strong Venus is in Lagna, the authority will be able to
hold the person in custody. If Saturn or Venus is in combustion, the
chances for slipping out will be bright. The combination for death in a birth
chart, if present in Prasna chart, indicates release from prison. If Saturn or
Mars is in Aries or Libra, the release will be early. If they are in Cancer or
Capricorn, release will be secured after much difficulty. If they are in fixed
signs, the release comes late. If they are in common signs, the time of
release will neither be early nor late.
Queries Bearing on ships, Etc.
172. There are four questions pertaining to ships, safe voyage difficulties on the
sea, breaking-up on the sea and gain or loss in its sale.
173. If "will I profit from the ship" is the question, say that it brings gain and
benefit to the querent if benefics are in quadrants and malefics are weak
and occupy the 3rd, 6th or 11th houses.
32
174. If the lords of Lagna and Navamsa Lagna are retrograde and aspected by
benefics, the ship with merchandise arrives safe. If the lords of Lagna and
Navamsa Lagna are aspected by malefics, the ship arrives without any
merchandise.
175. If the lords of Lagna and the 8th are in their respective signs, gain will accrue
in the transaction. A strong benefic in the 8th indicates gain and other
beneficial results.
176. If "will the ship arrive safe" is the query, say it will arrive early if Mrityu Yoga
is present in the chart. But for predicting benefits other combinations are
to be looked into.
177. If the lord of the 8th is in an inimical aspect with the lord of the ascendant or
the lord of the sign held by the Moon or the Moon himself, the owner
(commander) or the ship will get drowned in the sea.
178. If the lords of the ascendant and the 8th do not aspect their respective houses,
it is certain that the ship in voyage will get sunk.
179. If the lords of the ascendant or the 8th are in the 7th, the merchandise will be
lost but the ship will return home safe.
180. If there is a mutual hostile aspect between the lords of Lagna and Chandra
Lagna, the men on ship will be involved in mutual quarrels.
Truth of Rumours
181. If the ascendant, the ascendant lord and the Moon are conjoined with or
aspected by benefics or occupy a Kendra, favourable news received about
the ship will be reliable.
182. If the above factors are afflicted, evil news about the ship will be correct. If
the ascendant lord is retrograde, then the news, whether good or bad, will
be unreliable.
On Purchase and Sale
183. To answer the question "can I purchase this article", consider the lord of the
ascendant as the purchaser and lord of the 2nd or lord of the 11th as the
indicator of sale.
184. If the ascendant is strongly disposed, the article can be purchased as it will be
definitely gainful to the querent.
33
185. If the question is "shall I sell the article", say that it can be sold for profit if the
11th house is occupied by strong planets.
On Crops
186. To answer the question, "in which direction do the crops thrive; in which
direction they do not thrive well", first of all ascertain which part of the
land will be afflicted.
187. The crops will thrive well in the direction signified by the Kendra which is
occupied by benefic planets.
188. The land in the direction indicated by the Kendra which is afflicted by Saturn
and other malefic planets will be unsuitable and as a consequence famine
will result.
189. The direction signified by the Sun is exposed to the danger of destruction of
the crops by the king. In the direction signified by Mars, the crop will be
destroyed by fire.
190. The crops will flourish well in the direction signified by the Kendra occupied
by fortified benefic planets.
191. Astrologers should know that if all the Kendras are occupied by powerful
malefics, the entire land will be unfit for cultivation.
Chapter 4: Miscellaneous Matters
1. The querent is sure to gain if the lords of the ascendant and the 8th are in the
same Drekkana.
2. In this manner, by considering the Drekkanas should the discerning astrologer
infer the results in respect of all the houses even by not taking into account
other combinations.
3. The Bhavas ruled by planets having a larger share of benefic vargas in Prasna
Lagna will show auspicious results.
4. The benefit-giving planets are the lords of the ascendant and the 11th. It should
be noted that a combination of the lords of the ascendant and the 11th is
always beneficial and confer good results.
34
5. The beneficial capacity of the lords of the ascendant and the 11th becomes
intensified if they have the aspect of the Moon. It is clear that in the
absence of the Moon's aspect, the potential of any yoga is reduced.
6. There will be immense gain if the 9th is aspected by or conjoined with the lord
of the 10th; or if the lord of the 11th is joined by the lord of the 10th, the
12th or the 8th.
7. If the 8th and 12th houses are aspected by benefics, there will be increase of
righteousness and good actions. Other Bhavas should also be studied
likewise.
8. When the lord of Lagna is in the 6th, the querent's own Atma will be his enemy.
When the ascendant lord is in the 8th, death will ensue. When the lord of
Lagna is in the 12th, the querent will always have losses.
9. When Mercury occupying the ascendant is aspected by the Moon or other
malefics, there will be early gain of money. But the querent will also have
troubles.
10. The Moon is always to be considered as the seed, the ascendant as the flower,
the navamsa ascendant as the fruit and the house as taste.
11-12. If the lord of the ascendant aspects the ascendant and the significator
aspects the house; or if the ascendant lord aspects the house and the
significator aspects the ascendant; or if the ascendant lord aspects the
significator and the significator aspects the ascendant lord. In all these
cases, the object will be completely fulfilled if there is the Moon's aspect
also.
13-14. If the Lagna is not aspected by a benefic, the benefic effect is one-fourth.
When a benefic aspects the lord of the ascendant, the benefic effect is onehalf. when a benefic aspects the ascendant, the good effect is three-fourths
which means the object will be fulfilled.
15-19. Reduce the longitude of the ascendant (beginning from Aries) into minutes.
It is called Kalapinda. Multiply this by the equinoctial shadow at the
moment of query. Divide this product by 7. Reject the quotient. The
remainder represents the planets (in the order the Sun 1, the Moon 2, Mars
3, Mercury 4, Jupiter 5, Venus 6 and Saturn 7) which is to be taken.
Multiply again the Kalapinda by the concerned planetary factor; (the sun 5,
the Moon 21, Mars 14, Mercury 9, Jupiter 8, Venus and Saturn 11). Divide
the product by the sum of the Gunakas from the Sun to the planet in
question. Deduct from this remainder (y) the Gunaka of the Sun, etc.
Whichever planet's Gunaka is not deductable should be considered the
rising planet. If this planet is a benefic, the object of the query will be
fulfilled. The time of fructification is indicated by the remainder (y). If the
rising planet is the Sun or Mars, the remainder (y) represents so many days.
35
If is Venus or the Moon, the number represents the fortnight. It is Jupiter,
the number represents month, if Mercury half-year and if Saturn, years.
20. In respect of questions bearing on conception, gain of money, arrival and
departure, success or failure, and distruction of enemies, the above method
of ascertaining the time of fructification can be successfully employed.
21-24. The Sun, Mars, Venus, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn and the Moon represent
respectively the groups of letters commencing from a, ka, cha, ta, tha, pa,
ya and sa. One the basis of the first letter or syllable uttered by a querent
the Lagna at night should be found and good and bad predicted. If the first
letter is the 1st, 3rd, etc., in the group, then the Lagna is an odd sign. If it is
2nd or 4th in the group, it is an even sign. As the Sun and the Moon have
only one Rasi each, the question of an odd or even Rasi does not arise.
Hence one should predict as before on the basis of the ascendant. This is
the method used for deciding Lagnas when more than one query is put.
One's Own Thinking
25. If a planet occupying his own Navamsa aspects his own Navamsa in the Lagna,
the 5th or the 9th, then the query refers to Dhatu. If the aspecting planet
occupies the Navamsa of another planet, the query relates to Jeeva. If the
aspecting planet occupies another planet's Navamsa and aspects another
Navamsa in the Lagna, the query relates to Jeeva.
26. In odd signs, the nine Navamsas represent in regular order, Dhatu, Moola and
Jeeva. In even signs, the order is reversed. The nature of the object should
be ascertained on the basis of the rising Navamsa. The rules given here are
only brief. Details can be obtained from other sources.
27. If the Sun and Mars are fortified in a quadrant, the query will be about a Dhatu
or mineral. If Mercury and Saturn are strongly placed in a Kendra, the
question relates to a Moola (vegetable). And if the Moon, Jupiter and
Venus are strongly disposed in a Kendra, the query will bear on a Jeeva or
animal.
28-29. If the ascendant is Aries, Scorpio or Leo and is occupied or aspected by the
Sun and Mars, the query relates to a Dhatu. If the ascendant is Gemini,
Aquarius or Virgo occupied or aspected by Saturn and Mercury, the query
is about Moola. If the ascendant is Taurus, Libra, Leo, Pisces, Sagittarius or
Cancer occupied or aspected by the Moon, jupiter and Venus, the query is
about Jeeva.
30. The house occupied by the strong lords of the ascendant and the 11th in
conjunction with the moon reveals the nature of the query in the mind of
the consultant.
36
31. In a similar manner, the astrologer can ascertain the nature of the query from
the house in which the lord of the ascendant and powerful Moon are in
conjunction.
32-33. The question will be about a person who is closely connected with the
querent if a planet is strongly placed in the ascendant; if in the 3rd, the
query will be about brothers; if in the 5th, about children; if in the 4th,
about mother or wife; if in the 6th, about the enemy; if in the 7th, about
wife; if in the 9th, about righteous people; if in the 10th, about preceptor.
The prediction must also be made taking into due consideration whether
the lord of the Navamsa Lagna is endowed with strength and is friendly or
inimical to the lord of the ascendant.
34. If the ascendant is a movable sign and the rising Navamsa also being movable is
the 6th, 7th 8th or 9th, the query will be about a person who has gone to a
far-off place. If the planet that has 'fallen' from the 7th is not retrograde,
the person gone abroad will return. If the planet is retrograde, the person
will not return.
35-36. Mars, the Sun and Venus in the 7th indicate that the querent will have had
sexual connection with another woman; Jupiter in the 7th, his own wife;
mercury or the Moona prostitute; Saturn, a low caste woman. The age of
the woman will be according to the age of the Moon.
If the Moon in the 7th is bala, the woman will be a young girl Mercury also denotes
a young girl; Saturn an elderly lady; Sun or Jupitera lady in confinement;
Mars and Venus a quarrel-some woman. Thus should be found out the age
of the woman.
37-38. When the Moon having Ithasala with benefics is in a Kendra the querent
will enjoy with pleasure and happiness. When the Moon's Ithasala is with a
malefic, the couple's union will be marked by quarrels and angry exchanges
or the union will result in affliction. The nature of secretion in the woman
will be according to the nature of the sign in the 7th house. Jupiter in the
ascendant, Venus in the 7th, the Moon in the 4th the secretion will be to
the complete satisfaction and joy of the couple.
39. If the Moon has a Kamboola Yoga with a benefic, the woman's secretion will
be fresh like a flower and of pleasant odour. If the Moon is in his own
house or exaltation, the union will be in a mansion. If the Moon is in a
common sign, the union is with one's own wife.
40. If the ascendant is a movable sign, the querent will have sexual intimacy with a
woman, not his own wife. When Saturn is in the 4th, the union will be with
a woman in menses. When the lord of a diurnal sign is in the 3rd or in the
9th, the union will be during the day. If the lord of a nocturnal sign is in the
3rd or the 9th, the union will be during the night. If both lords are in the
3rd or the 8th, the querent will have union both during day and night.
37
On Trade and Commerce
41. If at the time of query, Aries, Taurus or Gemini rises aspected by or conjoined
with benefics, the food crops, pertaining to Greeshma season, will not
thrive well. When the ascendant is Sagittarius, Capricorn and Aquarius
occupied by the Sun, cereals will be available. If the Sun is aspected by or
conjoined with malefics, there will be scarcity.
42. When the query ascendant is endowed with strength and aspected by or
conjoined with the lord of the ascendant or benefic planets and benefics
occupy quadrants, moderate trade prices will prevail. Otherwise, high trade
prices will rule.
43. If the lord of the rising sign, at the time of full Moon, new Moon and entry of
the Sun and the Moon into Aries, is aspected by or in conjunction with
benefics, happiness and peace will prevail in the world. If the lord of Lagna
is afflicted, the people will have fear from diseases and rulers.
44. If the ascendant at the time of Sun's entry into Aries happens to be a Kendra
from the Janma Rasi of the querent, and is in Ithasala with malefic planets
and the Moon and is aspected by or conjoined with malefics, the year in
question forebodes ill-health but plenty of food will be available
45. If the lord of the ascendant at the time of solar ingress into Aries being a
benefic planet, occupies his own or exaltation place or a Kendra and is
aspected by or in conjunction with benefics and is endowed with strength,
then during that year, the world will witness happiness, crops will thrive
well and there will be plenty in the land. When the ascendant lord is a
malefic, weak and afflicted, there will be fear from rulers, famine and food
prices will soar.
Individual's Future
46. That Bhava in the birth horoscope, in which the ascendant at the time of Sun's
ingress into Aries falls, will prosper well during the year ahead provided it
is occupied by or conjoined with benefic planets. Otherwise the contrary
will be the result.
47-48. When the rising sign in the solar ingress chart which is endowed with
strength falls in different places in a person's horoscope the following
results will happen : In the first house, body comforts and physical
happiness; 2nd, gain of money or increase of wealth; 3rd, happiness in the
family; 4th, pleasant relations with friends; 5th, birth of children; 6th, defeat
of enemies; 7th, happiness from women; 8th, danger of death and disease;
38
9th, inclination to righteous deeds; 10th, mental peace and gain of a
position; 11th, all kinds of gains and 12th; sorrow and poverty.
49. The 5th and the 9th aspect is 75% strong. It is the strongest and the most
beneficial of all aspects and is openly friendly.
50-51. Of the 3rd and 11th aspect, the aspect on the 3rd is 40% strong; on the 11th
it is 10%; the 3rd and 11th aspect is secretly friendly and is always
favourable for fulfillment of desires. The 4th and 10th aspect is also 75%
strong. It is an unfavourable and unfriendly aspect. the Ist and 7th aspect is
100% strong. It is secretly hostile and unfavourable.
52-53. Though the orb in respect of all aspects is 12 degrees the results should be
interpreted on the basis of special orbs with reference to each planet, viz.,
the Sun 15, the Moon 12, Mars 8, Mercury 7, Jupiter 9, Venus 7 and Saturn
9.
54-55. If a faster planet with less longitude is backwards of a slower planet with a
greater longitude, Ithasala Yoga is caused. If the latter planet is ahead of
the former by a minute or 30", it is a complete Ithasala. this Yoga becomes
Muthasila.
56. When a faster-moving planet is ahead of a slower-moving planet by one degree,
Easarapha is caused. It is also called Musaripha. This is an unfavourable
combination.
57. When there is no mutual aspect between two planets but a faster (than the two
not in aspect) planet is in between in aspect with both then this fastermoving planet transfers light from the (other faster) planet to slower one.
This is Nakta Yoga.
58-59. In regard to a question about getting a wife : the Ascendant is Virgo and the
lord Mercury is in Leo. The lord of the 7th Jupiter is in the 7th. there is no
aspect between these two planets. The faster-moving planet is placed
between Mercury and Jupiter and in aspect with them transfers light from
Mercury to Jupiter. The bride will be secured through the assistance of
another person.
60. When there is no aspect between two lords and a slower-moving planet is in
between these two lords involved in aspect with to them, then the slowermoving planet will transfer light from the other faster of the two lords to
the slower. This is Yamaya yoga.
61. When there is Ithasala between two planets and the Moon is also involved in
Ithasala with one of the planets, the resulting yoga is Kamboola. There are
three varieties of this yoga, viz., exalted, mediocre and debilitated.